Pesticides are designed to kill pests
but they can also present potential risks to you.
One potential source of pesticide exposure is your diet.
If you eat a food such as strawberries
that has pesticide residue,
it goes into your stomach along with the strawberry.
After being broken down and
absorbed in the small intestine,
tiny particles move into your bloodstream
to be carried throughout your body.
Potential health effects depend on the type of pesticide.
For example, there may be cardiovascular signs
like an increased heart rate and high blood pressure.
The pupils may become dilated,
resulting in blurry vision.
Exposure sometimes results in bronchoconstriction,
which means the airways narrow
as in an asthma attack.
There are many other possible symptoms.
They also vary depending upon the
type and level of exposure,
and your size and health.
You can reduce the amount of pesticides
you consume by washing,
peeling, and trimming fruits and vegetables
and eating a variety of foods
from a variety of sources.